1138 Added router error alert (#3964)
alphagov/govuk-developer-docs: source/manual/alerts/RouterErrorRatioTooHigh.html.md

---
owner_slack: "#govuk-2ndline-tech"
title: Router error ratio too high
parent: "/manual.html"
layout: manual_layout
section: Pagerduty alerts
---

You can find the router request error rates on this dashboard:

- [5xx Router Requests][router-5x https://grafana.eks.production.govuk.digital/d/uBEWkijnz/router-request-rates-errors-durations?orgId=1 x-request-rates-grafana]

> You can also view the 500+503 error rates across all applications on this dashboard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also view the 500 and 503 error rates across all applications on this dashboard:
```

- [5xx app Requests][app-5xx-error-rates-grafana]

> ## description

Reviewer 2: optional: I actually love these lowercase titles (they seem comfortingly retro to me, like [DEC branding](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/f3/DEC_System_10_Users_Handbook_%2815272018349%29.jpg) from the 70s-80's 😀) though I suspect [style guide says no](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/style-guide/a-to-z-of-gov-uk-style#capitalisation) :( (your call though!)

Author: going to leave it 👍

This alert will fire when the ratio of requests in an error state are above the threshold configured in

> this config [file][https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-helm-charts/blob/main/charts/monitoring-config/rules/router.yaml]

Reviewer: Describe the file for accessibility, instead of "this config file". (Helps if you're a screen reader user as it saves you having to follow the link to gain context)

Author: Have described the metric as it's currently written and linked to the config file in case it changes.

## impact

> Router deals with requests to the rails applications which means that both publishers and/or end users could be seeing errors depending on which application is returning errors.

Reviewer: Router is only used in request to frontend requests, not publishing applications. So a little bit confused about the distinction being made here about publishers and users possibly seeing errors.

```suggestion
Router deals with requests to frontend Rails applications which means that end users could be seeing errors depending on which application is returning errors.
```

Use [this][app-5xx-error-rates-grafana] dashboard to check which applications have been erroring recently then look in [Kibana][prod-kibana] for more detailed look into the specific log messages.

## potential resolution steps

- If an application has been recently updated and is returning errors it may require a rollback using the app's deploy github action https://github.com/alphagov/<appname>/actions/workflows/deploy.yml

> - If your application is currently dealing with a sudden increase in load it could be that you need to scale your application. You can check the following [documentation][scale-app] in order to do this.

Reviewer 2: Could simplify this to
```suggestion
- If your application is currently dealing with a sudden increase in load it could be that you need to [scale your application][scale-app].
```
